---
title: Linking eScience engineers and applied mathematicians
---

Previous
[notes](https://github.com/NLeSC/Analytics-SIG/blob/master/Meetings/20210621/notes.md)
and materials in [Analytics
repo](https://github.com/NLeSC/Analytics-SIG).

Present
=======

-   Sarah
-   Johan
-   Ewan
-   Abel
-   Ou
-   Jaro
-   Gijs
-   Pablo R.

Notes
=====

Jaro: the applied mathematician is the one who must apply for a
*Small-Scale Initiative*.

Johan: *Small-Scale Initiatives* start with a workshop, whose content
can be decided by us.

\--

Gijs: there is no direct benefit for the mathematicians' community.

Johan: provides exposure.

Pablo R: knowing about best practices, improving how they do research in
their daily work.

Abel: Matlab does not have all the users. Relevance of open-source
alternatives (Julia, R, ...).

\--

Johan: most applied mathematicians are already aware of the value of
software.

Sarah: the goal is to organize a workshop next year.

Johan: we really need some stories to tell them. Give good examples.

Pablo R.: a blog could be a good starting point. Already working on it.

\--

Ou: mathematicians may have difficulties adapting their (MATLAB) code to
external libraries.

Johan: applied mathematicians and physicists will be able to do this.

Sarah: had good experiences regarding this.

\--

Jaro: mathematicians will not get advantages from learning new
programming languages. How does this match with the daily advantages of
good practices?

Johan: focus should be in linking with applications.

\--

Gijs: applied mathematics is broad.

Johan: every university has a math department. At least if some of them
are interested, we can try to help them.

Gijs: a colloquium / roadshow could be an alternative starting point to
a workshop.

Johan: we have not been doing these projects, so we have few examples.
**Help me collect those.**

Gijs: Laurens B. (see Ou's comment below, and for singular value
decomposition see [lunch
talk](https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/4c7cc173-0783-4f3f-8bf7-d51f87781517)),
Machine Learning (Florian), clustering (Sonja, Rena), tipping points
(Johan, Pablo R.), fluid dynamics (Johan, Pablo R.).

Pablo R.: the [Center for Complex Systems
Studies](https://www.uu.nl/en/research/centre-for-complex-systems-studies-ccss)
could be a good starting place for a roadshow.

\--

Sarah: what about the timing?

Johan: we want to start next year. Planning several colloquia will take
a lot of time.

\--

Ou: shared [a link](https://cgc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) in relation
to Lourens B. project. [Original
proposal.](https://nlesc.sharepoint.com/sites/all/Shared%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx?id=%2Fsites%2Fall%2FShared%20Documents%2FNLeSC%20project%20proposals%20under%20our%20calls%2FFor%20Analysis%2F2018%2FASDI%202018%2FSubmitted%20Pre%20Proposals%2FASDI%2E2018%2E035%20%2D%20Zurita%2DMilla%2Epdf&parent=%2Fsites%2Fall%2FShared%20Documents%2FNLeSC%20project%20proposals%20under%20our%20calls%2FFor%20Analysis%2F2018%2FASDI%202018%2FSubmitted%20Pre%20Proposals)

\--

Jaro: we need contacts in the field. Perhaps in CWI?

\--
